Cloud Computing Everything You Need to Know to Get Started.md, before:

# 1.    Problems with on-premises infrastructure
- **Large capital investment:** IT teams need to spend a large amount of money setting up hardware, servers, storage networking, operating systems, applications, and data in their on-premises infrastructure. Purchasing and installments involve a large up-front capital investment.
- **Capacity planning:** IT teams need to start guessing the capacity of the project. Chances are that the team may end up with overutilization or underutilization of resources due to incorrect up-front capacity planning.
- **Not Scalable:** On-premises infrastructure resources can’t be scaled up or down based on business needs. Hence, it is very difficult to incorporate rapidly changing business requirements. This makes on-premises infrastructure highly unreliable.
- **Low availability:** On-premises data canters are not highly available as they are located in a single geographical location. Any disaster will significantly impact operations due to a lack of high availability across multiple regions.
# 2.  Cloud computing to the rescue
Cloud computing promotes on-demand provisioning of various resources. A resource may be any computing or storage device or any other application. These resources are made available to users when they are actually requested. All these resources are made available to users with a few clicks. Users don’t need to reinvent the wheel and invest heavily. Use it and pay for it. It’s that simple.
In traditional on-premises setups, the user needs to eagerly (upfront) setup the resources. In contrast to on-premises setups, cloud computing promotes a lazy (no upfront) setup where resources of exact size and type are provisioned to the user instantly as per his needs.
## 2.1.  Advantages of cloud computingAdvantages of cloud computing
- There is no up-front capacity planning.
- There are no capital expenses; the user needs to pay only for operational expenses. Pay only for your usage.
- As the cloud is everywhere and the user base is large, users will benefit from a reduction in the price.
- High availability and scalability increase speed and agility.
- There is no need to spend money on maintaining the data centers.
- Cloud resources are global; they are replicated across multiple locations.
## 2.2.  Cloud computing types
Cloud computing has three different types, i.e., private cloud, public cloud, and hybrid cloud. These distinctions are made based on the way cloud services are used by clients.
- **Private Cloud:** Cloud services are delivered to a single organization. Designed and developed to be used by a single organization. This is a highly secure and efficient option when organizations need full control at the cost of high pricing.
- **Public Cloud:** Cloud services are open for public use. Users will have little control as resources are shared. Resource sharing will promote a decrease in pricing at the cost of decreased security.
- **Hybrid Cloud:** Cloud services are delivered using a mix of private and public clouds. In this model, sensitive data is protected with the use of a private cloud, whereas a public cloud is used for non-sensitive data. This is a highly flexible option at the cost of increased complexity.

![Cloud Computing Types](https://github.com/ssamag/technical-writing/assets/80880193/88e77de7-3ed1-4936-9eaa-df97d9ef95f4)

## 2.3.  Cloud Service Models
Cloud computing services are offered in the form of three different models: infrastructure as a service (IaaS), platform as a service (PaaS), and software as a service (SaaS). Each of them provides different levels of control, flexibility, and management.
- **Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS):** This model allows you to rent all the required infrastructure from the cloud provider. Infrastructure may include servers, storage, VMs, and networking. It provides complete control over running your middleware and applications on top of the cloud-provided infrastructure. It resembles traditional on-premises infrastructure, making it a great alternative to replacing your on-premises infrastructure. Examples of IaaS are Amazon EC2, Google Compute Engine (GCE), Azure, and Digital Ocean. This is the cheapest option among all three models.
- **Platform as a Service (Paas):** In this model, the cloud provider will provide a ready-to-use development environment. The cloud provider will take care of the underlying infrastructure and middleware. This makes a developer’s life easy as it helps to create applications quickly without worrying about the underlying infrastructure. This option is more expensive than IaaS but cheaper than SaaS. Examples of PaaS are AWS Elastic Beanstalk, AWS Lambda, and Cloud SQL DB from Google Cloud. **PaaS = IaaS + Middleware**.
- **Software as a Service (SaaS):** In this model, the service provider will provide a complete product, which will be managed by the service provider. The service provider will take care of the underlying infrastructure, middleware, and application itself. These ready-to-use products can be subscribed to or purchased from a service provider. This option is the most expensive compared to IaaS and PaaS. Examples of SaaS are Gmail, Microsoft 365, Zoom, and AWS Rekognition. **SaaS = PaaS + IaaS**.

![Cloud Service Models](https://github.com/ssamag/technical-writing/assets/80880193/e8426266-a166-4bb7-a084-02bea1cd2d00)


# 3.  Cloud infrastructure vs. on-premises infrastructure

![Cloud vs On-Premise](https://github.com/ssamag/technical-writing/assets/80880193/faef3954-00a5-4366-97f4-1551abf36225)

# 4.  Conclusion
Cloud computing delivers computing resources over the internet with just a few clicks. It offers cost savings, scalability, and high availability. Cloud can be deployed in three different ways: private cloud, public cloud, and hybrid cloud. These distinctions are made based on the way cloud services are used by clients. Cloud service models are infrastructure as a service (IaaS), platform as a service (PaaS), and software as a service (SaaS). Each of them provides different levels of control, flexibility, and management. So the cloud is a far better alternative to on-premise infrastructure. Hence, if possible, go for it!

Commit message:

Update Cloud Computing Everything You Need to Know to Get Started.md
Added title

Cloud Computing Everything You Need to Know to Get Started.md, after:

# Cloud Computing Everything You Need to Know to Get Started
## Table of contents

# 1.    Problems with on-premises infrastructure
- **Large capital investment:** IT teams need to spend a large amount of money setting up hardware, servers, storage networking, operating systems, applications, and data in their on-premises infrastructure. Purchasing and installments involve a large up-front capital investment.
- **Capacity planning:** IT teams need to start guessing the capacity of the project. Chances are that the team may end up with overutilization or underutilization of resources due to incorrect up-front capacity planning.
- **Not Scalable:** On-premises infrastructure resources can’t be scaled up or down based on business needs. Hence, it is very difficult to incorporate rapidly changing business requirements. This makes on-premises infrastructure highly unreliable.
- **Low availability:** On-premises data canters are not highly available as they are located in a single geographical location. Any disaster will significantly impact operations due to a lack of high availability across multiple regions.
# 2.  Cloud computing to the rescue
Cloud computing promotes on-demand provisioning of various resources. A resource may be any computing or storage device or any other application. These resources are made available to users when they are actually requested. All these resources are made available to users with a few clicks. Users don’t need to reinvent the wheel and invest heavily. Use it and pay for it. It’s that simple.
In traditional on-premises setups, the user needs to eagerly (upfront) setup the resources. In contrast to on-premises setups, cloud computing promotes a lazy (no upfront) setup where resources of exact size and type are provisioned to the user instantly as per his needs.
## 2.1.  Advantages of cloud computingAdvantages of cloud computing
- There is no up-front capacity planning.
- There are no capital expenses; the user needs to pay only for operational expenses. Pay only for your usage.
- As the cloud is everywhere and the user base is large, users will benefit from a reduction in the price.
- High availability and scalability increase speed and agility.
- There is no need to spend money on maintaining the data centers.
- Cloud resources are global; they are replicated across multiple locations.
## 2.2.  Cloud computing types
Cloud computing has three different types, i.e., private cloud, public cloud, and hybrid cloud. These distinctions are made based on the way cloud services are used by clients.
- **Private Cloud:** Cloud services are delivered to a single organization. Designed and developed to be used by a single organization. This is a highly secure and efficient option when organizations need full control at the cost of high pricing.
- **Public Cloud:** Cloud services are open for public use. Users will have little control as resources are shared. Resource sharing will promote a decrease in pricing at the cost of decreased security.
- **Hybrid Cloud:** Cloud services are delivered using a mix of private and public clouds. In this model, sensitive data is protected with the use of a private cloud, whereas a public cloud is used for non-sensitive data. This is a highly flexible option at the cost of increased complexity.

![Cloud Computing Types](https://github.com/ssamag/technical-writing/assets/80880193/88e77de7-3ed1-4936-9eaa-df97d9ef95f4)

## 2.3.  Cloud Service Models
Cloud computing services are offered in the form of three different models: infrastructure as a service (IaaS), platform as a service (PaaS), and software as a service (SaaS). Each of them provides different levels of control, flexibility, and management.
- **Infrastructure as a Service (IaaS):** This model allows you to rent all the required infrastructure from the cloud provider. Infrastructure may include servers, storage, VMs, and networking. It provides complete control over running your middleware and applications on top of the cloud-provided infrastructure. It resembles traditional on-premises infrastructure, making it a great alternative to replacing your on-premises infrastructure. Examples of IaaS are Amazon EC2, Google Compute Engine (GCE), Azure, and Digital Ocean. This is the cheapest option among all three models.
- **Platform as a Service (Paas):** In this model, the cloud provider will provide a ready-to-use development environment. The cloud provider will take care of the underlying infrastructure and middleware. This makes a developer’s life easy as it helps to create applications quickly without worrying about the underlying infrastructure. This option is more expensive than IaaS but cheaper than SaaS. Examples of PaaS are AWS Elastic Beanstalk, AWS Lambda, and Cloud SQL DB from Google Cloud. **PaaS = IaaS + Middleware**.
- **Software as a Service (SaaS):** In this model, the service provider will provide a complete product, which will be managed by the service provider. The service provider will take care of the underlying infrastructure, middleware, and application itself. These ready-to-use products can be subscribed to or purchased from a service provider. This option is the most expensive compared to IaaS and PaaS. Examples of SaaS are Gmail, Microsoft 365, Zoom, and AWS Rekognition. **SaaS = PaaS + IaaS**.

![Cloud Service Models](https://github.com/ssamag/technical-writing/assets/80880193/e8426266-a166-4bb7-a084-02bea1cd2d00)


# 3.  Cloud infrastructure vs. on-premises infrastructure

![Cloud vs On-Premise](https://github.com/ssamag/technical-writing/assets/80880193/faef3954-00a5-4366-97f4-1551abf36225)

# 4.  Conclusion
Cloud computing delivers computing resources over the internet with just a few clicks. It offers cost savings, scalability, and high availability. Cloud can be deployed in three different ways: private cloud, public cloud, and hybrid cloud. These distinctions are made based on the way cloud services are used by clients. Cloud service models are infrastructure as a service (IaaS), platform as a service (PaaS), and software as a service (SaaS). Each of them provides different levels of control, flexibility, and management. So the cloud is a far better alternative to on-premise infrastructure. Hence, if possible, go for it!
